---
layout: post
title: Microfragmentation protocol Gryphon
date: '2023-01-18'
categories: Protocols
tags: Fragmentation
---
#### The following protocol allows the fragmentation of corals to create microfragments, adapting the size of the fragments desired for experimentation and/or coral restoration. Gryphon can be used on both live and dead corals as needed. 

## Materiels
### Regular stuff you need to do fragmentation
- Gryphon coral saw with all the stuff to run correctly the saw (sponge x2, balde)
- Recipe for water 
- Recipe for corals 
- Recipe for usless part or part don't used
- Paper towel
- Gloves 
- Cliper 

### If you want put the fragment on plugs
- Plugs 
- Glue 
- Recipe for plugs 

## Step 
### 1 Fragmentation station setup
- Set up the diamond saw on a stable, flat table to prevent it from moving during operation. 
- Remove the guard #1 on the top level of the saw (pick #X) and the cutting plate underneath the guard #2
- Install the blade in its axis by using the leveling screw on the left side of the saw (pick n°X). The side of the blade with the "diamond" fragments must be facing you (pic n°X)
- Wet the yellow foams (x2) with sea water (for live corals) or fresh water (for dead corals) in the dedicated place (pic n°X) 
- Fill the container with sea water (for live coral) or fresh water (for dead corals) and place this water in the dedicated tank. The water level must be at the level of the foam (pic n°X) 
- Replace the protection n°1 in its original place 
- Replace the guard n°2 in its original place, being careful not to damage the blade during handling
- Start the saw by using the start and stop button on the right side of the motor (pics n°X)
- Make sure that a small amount of water is running over the area where the corals are being cut. The water should not be too much to avoid splashing everywhere. The water is present to keep the blade wet and to facilitate cutting without overheating. 
- During the fragmentation manipulations, it will be important to change the water in the tank between two species to avoid any infection and/or attack linked to the mucus and other waste generated by the cut fragments.

### 2 Fragmentation - Preparation of the gluing station 
- From this step on **it will be advisable to wear gloves** and to change/or rinse the gloves used between two species
- Put the paper towel in place to dry the plug and the base of the coral in order to have a dry surface used for the gluing step
- Prepare the grid containing the number of plugs you want to generate
- Prepare a tank filled with sea water in order to put the excess or bad quality coral pieces for fragmentation 
- Prepare a stand for the cuttings exchange 
- Prepare a stand to receive the cuttings finalized in the aquarium of manintenant and/or to be put back on the reef/lagoon

### 3 Fragmentation - Fragmentation step 
- Make sure you have prepared the necessary material from step 2
- Select the area of the colony you wish to cut. If necessary, use the cutter to reduce the size of the coral colony. 
- Start to cut the coral without putting too much pressure so as not to break the blade or take the blade out of its axis
- **NEVER STOP THE SAW WHEN THE BLADE IS STILL IN THE CALCAREOUS SEQUEL**.
- When we cut the fgrament, it is necessary always to remain in the axis of the blade during the cutting. Otherwise, the blade will come out of its axis.
- Once the fragment of the desired size is cut, dry the base of the cutting using the drying station
- Place a spot of glue on the plug to be used for the cutting. It is not necessary to put a lot of glue
- Leave the coral on the drying stand for 2 minutes 
- Put the cutting back in the stand of the cuttings. 
- Start again with the next cutting

### 4 Cleaning the machine
- Once the cuttings are finished. Turn the machine off using the button on the right side of the motor (picks n°X)
- Unplug the saw
- Remove the protection plate n°2
- Remove the water in the tank by tilting the machine. A hole at the front right side (pick n°X) allows to empty the water
- Put fresh water in the dedicated tank. The water level must be at the level of the foam (peak n°X)
- Connect the saw to the mains 
- Turn on the machine with the button on the right side of the motor (pic n°X)
- Let the saw run for 4-5 minutes to rinse the system with fresh water
- Repeat the rinsing process, changing the fresh water once again
- Remove and rinse the yellow foams with fresh water (pick n°X)
- Remove the protective plates and rinse them with fresh water
- Remove the blade from its axle using the leveling screw on the left side of the saw (pick #X) and rinse it with fresh water
- Arrange all saw components so that the saw dries naturally.
- Once dry, store the components in the water container, put on the protective plates and store the saw in its dedicated place. 


